# Codes for "Intermediate Interaction Strategies for Collective Behavior"

## Citation
Y.Kikuchi and M.Iwamoto, Intermediate Interaction Strategies for Collective Behavior, arXiv, July 12, 2025[https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2507.09457]

Submitted to Physica A: Statistical Mechanics and its Applications

## LICENCE
MIT License

Copyright (c) 2025 Yuto Kikuchi

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.

## Files
| File | Language | Purpose |
|------|----------|---------|
| `model3DKI.pde` | Processing (4.3.4) | 3D-KI model simulation & visualization |
| `python code` | Python (3.9.6) | 3D-KI model simulation |
| `dataget.pde` | Processing (4.3.4) | Get data for clustering |
| `HDBSCAN.py`  | Python (3.9.6)    | Clustering using HDBSCAN |

## Tested environment
The programs here were tested under the systems below;
* MacOS Sequoia 15.5

## Quick start
### 1. Processing
1. Install **Processing 4** → open `model3DKI.pde` or `dataget.pde`.
2. Press → to run (invariant parameters inside the file).

### 2. Python (3D-KI model)
The following packages are required to run this code.
```bash
source .venv/bin/activate
```
This script is intended to be run from the terminal.
```bash
python 3dkiFix.py
```
or
```bash
python 3dkiParallel.py
```


### 3. Python (HDBSCAN)
The following packages are required to run this code.
```bash
pip install numpy matplotlib hdbscan
```
Tested with: 
```bash
numpy = 2.02
cv2 = 4.11.0
matplotlib = 3.9.2
```
Additionally, you will need a .txt file generated by running `dataget.py`.
Make sure to rename the file so that it matches the filename specified in the code (e.g., FILENAME = '1000vect(1.00,0.30,1).txt').

This script is intended to be run from the terminal.
```bash
python HDBSCAN.py
```
